Washington's FAMLI Act will provide income when workers must take extended leaves of up to 12 weeks for the birth or adoption of a child, or the serious health condition of the worker or a close family member, financed through low-cost payroll premiums.  Based on industry values, the attrition rate when no paid leave is offered is 33%. That is, a third of those who take unpaid leave will not return to work once their leave is complete. While the effects of offering paid leave on attrition are not always easy to ascertain, we know that companies such as Google have seen their attrition rate among new mothers halved after increasing paid leave to 18 weeks.  This is where cost savings are generated.

The Cost of Hire is a tech-specific number generated by JDA Professional Services, a staffing service specializing in the IT industry [ref]. For an employee with a salary of $60,000/yr, JDA estimates that the cost to replace is $150,000. As the salary of the position being replaces grows,
so does the cost of replacing the employee. Replacing an employee with an salary of $100,000/yr can cost as much as $169,000.  The cost of replacing an employee takes into account various direct and indirect expenses.  Among the costs that go into replacing an employee are the cost of the candidate search, relocation, sign-on bonuses, training, and the loss of institutional knowledge and productivity. Every enterprise is different, and some costs may be more applicable to some than to others, but the formula from JDA provides a solid starting point.

  | No paid leave | Paid leave
--|---------------|----------- 
Number taking leave | 12 | 12
